# <p align="center"><a href="https://softuni.bg/modules/22/csharp-db/1420"> C# DB - September 2023 <a/><p>

In the "C# DB" module, knowledge of MS SQL and popular ORMs for processing databases with C# is acquired. The first part of the module focuses on MS SQL, introducing students to basic concepts in the world of databases. The module will introduce students to one of the most widely used database management systems (DBMS) in the development of modern applications - MS SQL. They will acquire skills for working with relational databases, with an emphasis on basic functionalities, such as working with tables, grouping functions, transactions, procedures, etc. The second course is about working with databases using the standard for object-oriented data modeling in C# and .NET Core - Entity Framework Core (EF Core). 
Students will use their acquired knowledge of object-oriented programming and MS SQL so that at the end of the course they can build, navigate and test large projects, applying popular methodologies and best practices for writing code.

## The module "C# DB" has two courses inside, which are MS SQL and Entity Framework Core.

1. Databases are the standard way of using dynamic information in modern technology, making them an indispensable part of almost every application. The intensive course on the basics of databases will introduce students to one of the most widely used database management systems (DBMS) used in the development of modern information systems - Microsoft SQL Server. The course focuses heavily on the relational model, data modeling with ER diagrams (tables and relational relationships) and working with the SQL language (data extraction, selection, projection, joins, aggregation, grouping, modification, deletion and insertion). Provides fundamental knowledge of working with ACID transactions and transaction processing, and practical tips for performance tuning. This course lays the foundations of working with databases, making it easier to use them in real-world applications and to understand concepts such as converting a database into an object-oriented model (ORM).

2. The course follows in detail the work with the ORM technology: Entity Framework Core (EF core), which is a standard for ORM in C# and .NET Core applications. EF Core enables mapping between a relational database and an object-oriented model through "database first" and "code first" approaches, and provides a powerful object-oriented API for querying the database and performing CRUD operations. EF Core provides both an additional level of abstraction and an easy way to process database data. The course will demonstrate established practices in building the database layer of complex systems in C# applications through built-in implementations of the Repository pattern and the use of the service layer (Service Layer), as well as import and export to various data formats (JSON, XML).
